Initial Position : 
   First row : rook, knight, bishop, king, queen, bishop, knight, rook
   Second row : pawns *
Chess is played on a square board of 8 rows and 8 columns of squares. 
The colors of 64 squares alternate and are refered as " light square "
and " dark square ". Chess board is placed with a light square at the 
right hand end of the side nearest to each player, and the pieces are
set out as shown in the diagram with each king on its own color.
 *    The pieces are divided into white and black sets. Each player begins
the game with 16 pieces of specified color. These consist of 1 king,
1 queen, 2 rooks, 2 bishops, 2 knights, and 8 pawns. White moves first.
Pieces are moved in unoccupied squares or squares uoccupied by the
opponent ( exception en passant ). The players alternate moving one
piece at a time ( exception castling ).*
Check : It is a condition when a player's king is under the attack of
the opponents pieces.

Check mate : It is the condition when a player's king is in check and
he cannot move any piece to take his king out of check. The player
giving check mate is ultimately the winner !
*KING : King can move only 1 step at a time but in all the 8 directions.
King can also cassle. Condition for castling :
1. King should not be in check.
2. King and rook should not be moved before in the game.
3. King should not move over the squares in check.
4. The squares between the king and the rook should be unoccupied.

Castling move : King can move 2 squares to the left and the left rook 
2 steps to the right. OR King can move 3 steps to the right and the
right rook can move 2 steps to the left.
*ROOK : Rook can move in 4 directions - up, down, right, left. It can 
move any number of steps until it reaches the end of the board or encounters
any other coin.
*
BISHOP : Bishop can also move in 4 directions - top right, top left,
bottom right, bottom left. It can move any number of steps until it reaches
the end of the board or encounters any other coin.
*
QUEEN : Queen can move any number of steps until it reaches the end of
the board or encounters any other coin in any of the 8 directions.
*
KNIGHT : Knight moves in a very special way. It moves in the shape of
'L'. The longer side is of 2 squares and the shorter is of 1 square.
Knight can also jump over other coins.
*
PAWN : Pawn can move only in one direction. ie) only in forward direction.
In the first move it can move 2 steps or 1 step forward. But after that it
can move only 1 step forward untill it encounters another coin.

It has got 2 special moves :

En Passant : It is the move by which the pawn can attack the opponent's 
coin if the opponents coin is to the forward right or forward left position.

Promotion : If the pawn moves to the other end of the board, then it will 
get a chance to promote or exchange the pawn to any other coin other than 
the king.

A pawn can never move backwards on the board.*
           End Of Game :

Chess games do not have to end in checkmate- either player may resign if
the situation looks hopeless. Games also may end in a draw (tie). A draw
can occur in several situations : draw by agreement, stalemate, threefold
repetetion of a position, the fifty move rule, or a draw by impossibility
of checkmate (because of insufficient material to checkmate).
*